---
layout: page
authors: ["François Michonneau"]
title: "Using RMarkdown with the new lesson template"
date: 2016-07-08
tags: ["Tooling", "Software Carpentry"]
---

<p><b>This post originally appeared on the <a href="https://software-carpentry.org/">Software Carpentry website.</a></b></p>

Our lesson template is getting a face-lift.  Actually, it is a lot more than
that: all the internal mechanics are also affected.


## What's new with the template?

The lesson maintainers have developed a [new template](http://gvwilson.github.io/lesson-example/)
that comes with features that have been repeatedly requested such as an easy way
to navigate among episodes within a lesson: there are now "previous" and "next"
arrows in each episode.

This new template does not require having to use pandoc. Currently, the
lessons are written in Markdown, and converted into HTML by our lesson
maintainers using a wonderful piece of software called
[pandoc](http://pandoc.org/).  Instead, the new template uses
[jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) to take care of the conversion from Markdown
into HTML. Lesson maintainers will still need to have jekyll installed to check
that the website gets generated correctly, but the conversion from Markdown to
HTML for our online lessons will be handled directly by jekyll on the GitHub
servers. This means less work for our lesson maintainers and contributors, as
they will only to change to the markdown files. It also means that we will not
have to put the generated HTML files in the repository, which removes another
common source of error and frustration.

## What does it mean for the lessons written in RMarkdown?

For the lessons covering R, we still need to keep in the repository both the
RMarkdown files and the Markdown files. We write our lessons in RMarkdown to
ensure that all the code included in the lessons works correctly. Because of the
organization of the files with the new template, a few details had to be
adjusted but for the most part, writing lessons in RMarkdown with the new
template should not be too different from the current template.

Contributors to the lessons should edit the Rmd files, and the lesson
maintainers will run `make lesson-md` to generate the corresponding Markdown
files using [knitr](http://yihui.name/knitr/), before pushing these changes to the
lesson repository.

The Rmd files live in the `./_episodes_rmd` folder, and their respective
Markdown files live in `./_episodes`. The Makefile takes care of calling
`knitr::knit()` on each Rmd files in `./_episodes_rmd` and writing the output
in `./_episodes`. It is possible to have Markdown files in `./_episodes` that
don't have their counterparts in `./_episodes_rmd` as long as their names are
different.

## The required preamble

Each episode needs to start with a chunk that includes:

~~~r
source("../bin/chunk-options.R")
knitr_fig_path("01-")
~~~

The first line ensures that all the `knitr` options required to make the output
compatible with the template are set correctly.

The second line adds the episode number in front of each figure file. Here I
used `01-` but it should be adjusted to the correct episode number. We can't use
the `knitr` function `opts_chunk$set(fig.path="01-")` here as it would place the
figures in a folder that wouldn't make them accessible to the template by
overwriting the global definition of this variable. As currently configured,
all figures generated by code included in the episodes will be prefixed with
`rmd-`, such that figures generated by the first episodes will all start with
`rmd-01-`, making it easy to identify the origin of each figure in the `./fig`
folder.

## Data files

If the code in one of your episodes relies on data files (or other files), they
will need to be placed in a sub-folder (e.g., `./_episodes_rmd/data`). This
allows contributors to work interactively with each episode, and the code
included in the episode looks like how we ask learners to get setup.


## The new template in the wild

If you want to see examples of the new template in action, you can check out:

- the rendered lesson-example episode about
  [using RMarkdown](http://gvwilson.github.io/lesson-example/06-rmarkdown-example/)
  and its [source](https://github.com/swcarpentry/lesson-example/blob/2016-06/_episodes_rmd/06-rmarkdown-example.Rmd)
- the [r-novice-gapminder](http://swcarpentry.github.io/r-novice-gapminder/) and
  its [source](https://github.com/swcarpentry/r-novice-gapminder/) that I
  converted to the new template
