---
layout: page
authors: ["Kate Hertweck"]
title: "October 2016 Maintainers' Meeting"
date: 2016-10-13
time: "00:14:30"
tags: ["Community", "Software Carpentry"]
---

<p><b>This post originally appeared on the <a href="https://software-carpentry.org/">Software Carpentry website.</a></b></p>

This week's meeting of our lesson maintainers made some great progress in streamlining our decision-making process,
and we hope to begin implementing some of the changes discussed in the next few weeks.
The major highlights are:

1. **Creation of a developers' subcommittee**: We're creating a new
   subcommittee that will be in charge of decision-making for template
   and style changes common to all lessons. Each maintainer will still
   be responsible for PRs/issues specific to their lesson. I will
   contact folks who indicated interest in participating, and am
   pleased we have folks from both SWC and DC; if anyone not currently
   acting as a maintainer would like to take part, please
   [contact Kate Hertweck](mailto:k8hertweck@gmail.com).

2. **Instructor notes**: Quite a few of us are supportive of [the
   proposed template for standardizing instructor notes][notes]; these
   headings will be added to the example lesson this week, and we'll
   begin implementing across our core lessons over the next few
   weeks. I'll engage the mentoring subcommittee to see if there are
   folks interested in these conversions, since they've spent a lot of
   time talking to new instructors and can offer some great
   insight.

3. **Minor changes to styles/lessons/workshop-template**: There were
   no objections to a few outstanding changes, so these will be
   merged. Greg and Fran√ßois will wrap up the unresolved issue of
   inconsistency in paths to data files.

4. **Support for additional human languages**: We still don't have a
   workable solution for supporting lessons in languages other than
   English. At the very least, it would be nice to have a statement
   somewhere indicating our feelings on the matter, as we receive
   queries about this every few months. This will be one of the first
   items tackled by the new developers subcommittee.

5. **Defining core lessons**: Quite a few folks were enthusiastic
   about moving from the inflammation R and Python lessons to lessons
   based on the gapminder data. The consensus was that quite a bit
   more work would be required before this could be an "official"
   decision. This is another issue that will be discussed by the
   developers, but will obviously require more communication with
   the lesson maintainers.

As always, we're grateful to the lesson maintainers for everything
they do, and we hope these changes result in less email and more
productivity.  Please let me know if you have any questions or
concerns.

[notes]: https://github.com/swcarpentry/lesson-example/pull/43 
